Chapter 21
The Lockdown, The Blackout, The Escape.


Ms. Murdo ignores the mysterious paper and moves on, after all, it’s an invasion of 
privacy to see someone else’s messages. It could have dropped from the top of a house 
or something… The generator is acting up, so it IS a big possibility, also, a paper 
wouldn’t just drop from the dark, and endless sky, would it? Ms. Murdo walked down to her house, she didn’t have as big as an appetite as she used to have for some reason, maybe because the city is being really gloomy from all the blackouts and all. Suddenly, 
Ms. Murdo sees at the corner of her eye that poppy isn’t there! Where has she gone, 
she might be with Doon and Lisa, but they have been missing for 2 horrible days! She 
rushed swiftly out of her small house, and started walking down the short streets of the 
city, desperately looking for the vanished trio. Ms. Murdo wondered where she would go 
if she was Lina. First thing she would do would be to deliver messages, running down 
the streets, near the edge of the tiny city. 

Doon glanced carefully once more into the deep hole, still not believing what he is 
seeing. The message is still there, how has no one picked it up yet? He waited patiently 
until a peculiar man came up to the message, he bent over and picked it up. “Yes!” cried 
Doon, lisa looked over to see that the message was gone. They both celebrated, hoping
that the man would put it to good use. The mystery man walked away, rolling up the 
paper, and slowly reading it, line by line. The man was tall, walking with a strong pace. 
Doon recognised him, but didn’t know from where. He thought, and thought, and thought 
about it until he couldn’t anymore. He looked down once more, looking at the bright city 
of Ember. He tried to take a closer look, until he nearly fell down! He scrambled to get 
out of the hole, only making it bigger, and bigger, lina rushed towards Doon. She pulled 
Doon by the arm, and pulled him hard, Doon was almost fully into the city, he grabbed 
the edges of the hole, and pushed himself out at once. The hole crumbled, and 
collapsed, into a larger, wider, and higher void. The couple decided not to look down 
there again, the hole was as wide as a table and as tall as a flag. They backed away, 
looking at the hole. They thought about what the man was doing with their message of 
hope. 

Looper read the note so many times, he could not count the times he read it. What did 
this mean? How did it come here? When did it arrive? He was hoping to deliver it to the 
mayor as fast as he could. Looper turned corners, walked lines, and ran streets. He 
finally reached the mayor. He turned the note in, and as soon as the mayor touches the 
note, Looper is rewarded with bags upon bags of money. The mayor pushed Looper out 
of his grand office, and locked the doors. Looper was the most confused man in the 
world then. He walked briskly to his house with the bags of money, and slept through the 
day.  Suddenly, Looper heard an extremely loud bang outside his small window. “THE 
CITY IS ON LOCKDOWN, THE CITY IS ON LOCKDOWN!” cried everyone on the streets 
at the time. Looper questioned himself for what he has done, what was the importance 
of that piece of paper? He thought he got ripped off by the mayor, he needed more 
money, so he was going to run to his office, and demand the paper back from the mayor. 
The man ran as fast as he could down the street before the office was locked. Looper 
banged on the door to the mayor’s grand office, but it wouldn’t budge. He bange, 
knocked, and pushed, but nothing worked. Not at all. Looper noticed faint footsteps, as if 
someone was in the mayor’s room. Looper peeked through the tiny keyhole that lead to 
the mysterious room, and noone was there. It was as if Looper was the only person left 
in Ember. He went outside of the small building, and there was complete darkness, 
silence, and most importantly, loneliness. For the first time, Looper had something… to 
worry about.

Ms. Murdo was on the street, she saw a tall, and bent figure in the shadow of the city 
that was Ember. Ember was on lockdown for the first time, so she couldn’t make out the 
details.  Ms. Murdo walked swiftly to the figure, and bumped into it. ‘It’ was a tall man, who seemed to be breaking into the mayor’s office! “Hey! What are you doing!?” cried Ms. Murdo. “Shhh…” quietly whispered the man. He pick locked the door open, to find a dark void of a room. The man opened the door, and went through, while crouching. The man tried to turn the light on quietly, surprisingly, the light worked like magic. Even in this blackout, the object shined brightly in the darkness. The man opened every single door he could find, furiously looking for something. “Uhh, can I help you?” asked Ms. Murdo, and as soon as she ended the sentence, “No.” replied the man. The mystery man walked up to bhind the marvelous table, and opened the tiny drawers. Surprisingly, there was still… Nothing. The man frantically rummaged through the room to find at least one thing, but there was no result he wanted. They both looked in confusion, why would the mayor have a completely empty office? The man finally found a piece of paper behind a fake wall, it was then, that he was the happiest person on the planet. Soon they would be out of the cage that kept them all under the ground. Or will they?


To be continued...
